Add Location Component chapter (#292)
KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Guide: chapters/location_component_interface.adoc

// Copyright 205 The Khronos Group, Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

ifndef::chapters[:chapters:]
ifndef::images[:images: images/]

[[location-and-component-interface]]
= Location and Component Interface

This chapter is an overview of the link:https://docs.vulkan.org/spec/latest/chapters/interfaces.html#interfaces-iointerfaces-locations[Location and Component Assignment] chapter to help give examples, especially around some of the more extreme edge cases.

The simplest way to think about a `Location` is that it is made up of four 32-bit `Components`.
This means a `vec4`/`float4`/`uvec4`/etc will fit perfectly in a single `Location`.

> Multiple variables can be packed into the same `Location` if they are specified for unique components.

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to reuse the Vulkan spec language here as an aid when reading that chapter.
```suggestion
Multiple variables can be packed into the same `Location` if their `Component`s do not overlap.
```

----

image::{images}location_example_basic.svg[location_example_basic]

== 16-bit

16-bit values always consume a full 32-bit `Component`. So a vector with 16-bit elements will consume the same resources as a vector with 32-bit elements; they are not tightly packed.

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0) in f16vec3 a;
----

image::{images}location_example_16bit.svg[location_example_16bit]

== Crossing Location Boundaries

All 16-bit and 32-bit vectors must be inside a single `Location`, so the following is **not** allowed.
The last two elements would consume `component = 4` and `component = 5`, which do not exist.

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0, component = 2) in vec4 a;
----

image::{images}location_example_boundaries.svg[location_example_boundaries]

== 64-bit

64-bit are special as they can consume up to 2 `Location`, but they must only start at `Component` `0` or `2`.

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0) in f64vec3 a;
----

image::{images}location_example_64bit.svg[location_example_64bit]

== Interleaving Components

The following attempt to have multiple variables alias the same component is link:https://godbolt.org/z/h61baYhT4[not allowed].

[source,glsl]
----

> layout(location=0) in vec2 in_a;
> layout(location=0, component=1) in float in_f;

Reviewer: Possible improvement to be more explicit about what's happening:
```suggestion
layout(location=0) in vec2 in_a; // Components 0 and 1
layout(location=0, component=1) in float in_f; // Invalid: overlaps component 1
```

----

The following modification would make it legal as multiple variable can share a `Location`, just not a `Component
`
[source,patch]
----

> layout(location=0) in vec2 in_a;
> - layout(location=0, component=1) in float in_f;
> + layout(location=0, component=2) in float in_f;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
layout(location=0) in vec2 in_a; // Components 0 and 1
// Change in_f to use component 2 instead
- layout(location=0, component=1) in float in_f;
+ layout(location=0, component=2) in float in_f;
```

----

> == Array

Reviewer: Once Vulkan issue 4180 is clarified it would be good to expand this section I think

// Copyright 205 The Khronos Group, Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

ifndef::chapters[:chapters:]
ifndef::images[:images: images/]

[[location-and-component-interface]]
= Location and Component Interface

This chapter is an overview of the link:https://docs.vulkan.org/spec/latest/chapters/interfaces.html#interfaces-iointerfaces-locations[Location and Component Assignment] chapter to help give examples, especially around some of the more extreme edge cases.

The simplest way to think about a `Location` is that it is made up of four 32-bit `Components`. This means a `vec4`/`float4`/`uvec4`/etc will fit perfectly in a single `Location`.

`Location` are used for both the `Input` and `Output` to interface between shaders stages when possible.

== Basic Example

Here is a basic example:

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0) in vec4 a;
layout(location=1, component = 0) in vec2 b;

> layout(location=1, component = 2) in float c;

Reviewer 2: Somewhere this could do with an explicit call-out that the vec2 consumes two components.

----

image::{images}location_example_basic.svg[location_example_basic]

== 16-bit

When using 16-bit value, they consume a full 32-bit `Component` for each 16-bit element. So a 16-bit wide vector will look the same as a 32-bit vector.

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0) in f16vec3 a;
----

image::{images}location_example_16bit.svg[location_example_16bit]

== Crossing Location Boundaries

All 16-bit and 32-bit vectors must be inside a single `Location`, so the following in **not** allowed.

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0, component = 2) in vec4 a;
----

image::{images}location_example_boundaries.svg[location_example_boundaries]

== 64-bit

64-bit are special as they can consume up to 2 `Location`, but they must only start at `Component` `0` or `2`.

[source,glsl]
----

> layout(location=0) in f64vec3 a;

Author: >  I think it would also be a good idea to have a 64-bit example, particularly a 64-bit vec3/4

Here is that example

----

image::{images}location_example_64bit.svg[location_example_64bit]

== Interleaving Components

The following attempt to have multiple variables alias the same component is link:https://godbolt.org/z/h61baYhT4[not allowed].

[source,glsl]
----
layout(location=0) in vec2 in_a;
layout(location=0, component=1) in float in_f;
----

== Array

> Arrays will consume the entire `Location` for a given element in the array, as an example

Reviewer 2: This should explain that each subsequent element consumes more locations. Maybe something like:

 ```suggestion
An element of an array will consume all every `Component` in a `Location` that it would consume as a non-arrayed value, with each subsequent element consuming the next available `Location`. 
```

[source,glsl]
----

> layout(location=0, component=1) in float a[3];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
layout(location=0) in float a[3];
```

component decoration should just be banned (even if it's technically not atm)

----

image::{images}location_example_array.svg[location_example_array]

As seen, using a scalar or something such as a `vec2`/`float2` will leave many `Component` slots unused.

It is **not** allowed to use any other `Component` in a `Location` that is being consumed by an array

[source,glsl]
----

> layout(location=0, component=1) in float a[3];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
layout(location=0) in float a[3];
```

> layout(location=2, component=2) in float b;

Reviewer 2: A comment here explaining would be helpful - could also be a sentence afterwards.

```suggestion
layout(location=2, component=2) in float b;  // Invalid, as the array consumes all of location 2.
```
